hello everyone and welcome to the second
episode of hot line League now it's too
bright outside so I don't have the cool
setup that I had last time mark however
does have the strange color changing
light that annoys everyone is there no
way to just pick one color I mean there
is but I need to go find the remote that
does it and I don't think it annoys
people I did not see many people
complaining about it yeah people said
they wanted it to be one color but
either way you so if you're if you're
just watching hot line League for the
first time let me tell you a little bit
about how the show goes
oh we're getting a little bit of robot
voice I don't know why you guys tell me
if it gets fixed if not well restart the
show but I think we should be good
either way
if you're just tuning in to hot line
League for the first time and by the way
that makes sense because this is only a
second time that we've done the show but
this is a call-in show so we're gonna
spend the first couple minutes maybe
talking about something probably best
ones and then we'll be taking your calls
on a variety of topics but probably
mostly on the topic that we're
discussing on the show today if it seems
like we're unprepared because mark and I
did have a chance to talk too much
before the show cuz he was doing another
show which a lot of you were watching so
now you just continue on the mark
Zimmerman show watching train but either
way if you would like to call in the
best way to do that is by joining the
discord which is on the screen right now
and if you do join the discord
you'll be jumped into the general
channel with a bunch of other randos who
knows maybe meet yourself because you
don't know what you're gonna say or here
and there and then there's a general
chat channel you just type your question
in we'll move you to the waiting room
mark will be come down there make sure
that your audio stuff is great and then
we'll bring you on the air if you are
selected sometimes we do we do our best
to honor people who are subs but it's
not
but let's not really set up yet to
support that so you know if you are sub
maybe there's an increased chance but no
promises and don't please get
disappointed if you don't get picked
mark how are you doing I am doing well
sorry I was a spamming your chat with
discord link basically you just
join the discord we'll ask some
questions I am very scatterbrained I
would say scatterbrains very hectic with
all the world stuff that was going on
straight into the G LT and now this show
so I'm actually super looking forward to
it what I was saying is if you are
watching from scars hosted channel just
make sure you have this chat up as well
so if you just want to copy and paste
your way into this call group it's a
little bit easier and other than that I
have one thing I was talking about I
would love to keep talking about on G LT
was what it was like as viewers watching
the play internment that's something I
wouldn't mind getting some perspective
on from the average fan cool well so
maybe we will well maybe we'll follow up
with that a little bit but I think the
best thing to talk about I'm sure you
already talked about this on the show
mark your other show but you know as
everybody's getting into the discord
maybe we can have a quick chat about the
return of best of ones to the NA LCS
what's your stance I'm curious what you
were you were talking about on the other
show yeah we hit it briefly at the very
beginning I haven't had a chance to read
the entire article and it sounded like
in the article based off my quick
skimming of it that there were some
stats that they were using to talk about
it basically did some surveys and they
found that people frequently cited the
like the best of threes as a reason why
they weren't watching as much and
because they they said also that they
had a hard time watching an entire best
a3 match up where it was much more
approachable whenever it was just best
to ones and more than half of fans start
watching a best if they regardless of
what game the series teams were
currently playing they are not getting
the payoff of watching a series unfold
so they talked to fans and basically
this is what fans said they wanted which
makes sense because a lot of people I
think saw the viewership dip whenever
best of three s came into play and and
so it makes sense that in their
investigations they were finding best of
ones where perhaps something that
viewers wanted more of rewrite and I
think for the casual fan that's a
hundred percent true I do think some
more hardcore fans appreciated having
the best of three but there are a couple
things for me that stand out and one of
them is just that
there's still best of ones in
tournaments the big thing for me was
like when we get to best of threes in
the you know how how leagues run I
expect tournaments we've changed the
same way we'll get rid of like these
best of one group stages and maybe we'll
find a different solution and we're
still using best of ones at tournaments
and I understand why just do it's like
it's so hard to schedule anything other
than best of ones with a large number of
teams and gets a good tournament quickly
so I understand why there's the best
ones in tournaments and if there's gonna
be best ones in tournaments I think it's
important that somewhere else in the
competitive scene you play best of one
so I'm actually pretty alright from the
competitive standpoint I'm going to best
of ones during the regular season yeah I
think it's fine i was surprised a little
bit because i I know that like the
hardcore reddit crowd really supported
best of threes whenever they first were
being talked about
I was surprised like I felt I felt like
there was so much discussion over the
past year and a half about people kind
of realizing maybe they didn't like the
best of threes as much people talking
about viewership etc so I'm a little
surprised that there was so much outcry
of people on I know it's the most
hardcore fans but there was one highly
uploaded comment that was suggesting
that there be four best or once a week
like round-robin you play four different
teams a week you just double the amount
of games that's great and it was like a
lot of people agreeing with it can you
imagine like having to prep for four
teams and it's impossible yeah yeah
there's no way you could do that I think
what you would probably do if you want
to keep best of ones and a higher number
of games would keep the double stream
and then just have like you know those
games all going on and you know I guess
you have to speed it up somehow that way
but at the end of the day I think the
double stream going was was even more
important the best of threes going yeah
because that's that's where like a lot
of viewers we're having a hard time
keeping up with the league there is
viewer burnout is like you just couldn't
follow the league you only watch your
favorite teams and then you're less
invested in the league because you feel
like you know less about it you're like
I haven't Washington became it forever I
don't know who the hell these guys are
what they're doing so I think
simplifying all that is much better for
basically everyone who's not in your or
my position yeah even and even us it
makes our jobs easier I like first off I
think from a viewer I I was
excited for best of threes from a
because I thought it would be good for
viewership good for na LCS good for the
strength of the teams I don't think that
there's very much evidence that the
North American teams have improved
because of this I'm getting this great
lens player here what's going on here I
have to send it to heaven now goodbye
mark
it was melody yeah and I have your
clothing yes it's great it's very very
great anyway
so I just don't think that there was
much of a evidence that best of threes
actually did anything it'll make
everyone's lives easier I think and I'd
be very curious I assume that the
players eventually we're like yeah best
the ones are probably fine but I'm kind
of curious to see maybe I'll ask some
players in ALCS players at Worlds but
it's kind of a weird time to announce it
so so just a heads up anyone who's
typing in general I can only drag you in
to talk with us if you're also in the
general voice Lobby just as because
there's someone who I want to grab but I
don't see him in the general voice
lobbyists looking at yellow sub
specifically so I would love to yeah I'd
love to talk to fans at least in the
beginning I don't know if you're okay
with us mark talking to fans in the
beginning about their take on the best
of one best of three switch and you know
people who disagree people who agree
people who see different things that
maybe we haven't brought up super happy
to talk about that stuff yeah I'd love
to start there and then once we find out
who the first couple people we talk to
you hopefully we can find someone with a
different perspective so if you're pro
best of three and we grab you first
later we'll look for somebody's pro best
at one yeah very good so either way if
you want to hop in and it looks like
yellow sub has made it into the general
chat you can check in on him either way
if you're just tuning in or this is your
first time watching the show this is a
Colin show so we'll be talking to fans
live on the air right now mark is
setting us up for a chat with yeah he's
good to go you ready to bring in the
first caller yep first caller welcome to
the show yellow sub where are you
calling from hi I'm calling from Austin
awesome that's a great city great town
so hip yeah I can't understand you
guys though oh that's a problem why can
you not understand this hey your voice
sounds like robotic okay I think that's
on your end because Travis and I can
hear each other just fine well yellow
sub if you can hear me just go ahead and
explain to us sort of your take on the
format change yeah you guys perspective
and then we'll just we'll kick you out
because it sounds like it's gonna be
hard to have a back-and-forth
at least we'll get your perspective
first sure okay that's fine
so I'm kind of two minds on it I thought
both best of Greeson ones have their
advantages I kind of preferred best of
threes just because it allowed teams to
get more practice in and compared to
like Korea where they have best of
threes constantly I think there was at
least some noticeable difference in the
skills just because of the format there
is more like stage matches that were
allowed to be played I guess the main
thing is if they weren't gonna do best
of threes I would have preferred that
they switch to best of twos so I've
heard some people talk about best of -
so what about beste two's makes it so
much better for you because I know some
people when they have assets using
Europe complaining about not having a
definitive winner which feels bad as
well as you still have the scheduling
problem right we're like the average fan
like sure you're right so games we just
love a lot of games yeah okay so I've
heard that argument before but I don't
think it's particularly persuasive
because I think in the best of two what
you can do is assign point values to
each one right so if you go 1-1 in a
series then you give one point to each
team but if you go to nasir to two oak
in a series you give three points to the
team that goes - oh right so it makes
each game valuable and it also I guess
make sure that each how am I saying this
like it makes sure that the series
doesn't get like too long right and you
don't have like kind of any scheduling
issues then because you know every game
is going to be played no matter what I
think the sad thing is beste twos are
just never like regardless of the
advantages of them which I'm not saying
I necessarily agree with you but I do
think it's your light changing even
faster now mark I don't know what's
going on I like cracks out like it goes
slower or faster I'll change it okay
we'll finish this point then either way
I will throw this light out of window
yeah thank you either way I it's so
funny to me because regardless of if
there isn't if best of two is better I
think like it has become such a meme now
that like right would never risk you
know recreating the mean by bringing
back best tattoos and ties and all the
stuff like it just doesn't seem like
something and I think also from a it
doesn't I don't think it necessarily
solves the viewership perspective or
situation because I think we did have a
lot of best of threes actually only go
to beste twos so I think what they're
trying to solve is a viewership problem
and I'm not sure that messages resolves
that yeah I would say the best of two
problem you'll probably slef to run with
double stream so you have that whole
issue still which is something it feels
like generally the average viewers
against and then beste twos are arguably
just worse than best of three so if
you're gonna keep that just stay best of
three best the two like yep that the see
that like figuring out how to make them
feel important is fine but it's still is
something that I think fans just
generally regardless with the point
importance want to see the resolution of
it where it's like oh yeah they both
took him off each other who's gonna
finally win you know I think you still
lose that perspective or like that
appreciation like wow they were the ones
who did the final adaptation it took it
so if that's the case though do you
think there should be some sort of uh at
least like they should have consistency
then crews right then there there's like
an issue where you have some tournaments
where there's not best of ones right or
like I don't think there's not been best
of ones in the tournament has there for
like years
there's always best if once but like
okay okay so if that's the case then do
you think that best of ones are a good
like indicator for determining the best
team then because I think I saw there
was like some stat on reddit that's like
if it was best of once TSM would have
been like fourth or fifth place in the
regular season
but because of best of threes they're
number one I understand there's like a
viewership problem so I guess then my
question is how do you balance
viewership versus like you know true
competitive showing how often do you
feel like a team that was supposed to
win a season didn't win the season but I
think that's only remedied because of
the best of in playoffs sure well
getting remedied one way or the other
right like it they're not switching to
best of once in the playoffs so you'll
still have at the end of the split a
good way to prove that the best team won
and that they go on to whatever
international event moves on but I don't
know has serious implications then when
it comes to teams that don't make
playoffs versus teams that do make
playoffs so yeah I feel like I don't
feel like when you're not a good best of
one team you're not going to do good the
international competition so in a sense
you could argue having best of ones as
your regular season is a better
indicator of how you will perform at the
international competition because you
have to at least be competent at best of
ones as well right okay
all right that's fair yeah because what
happened like other than a and X I can't
think of a time that the best of one
system has like literally shit the bed
and been horrible like that's the only
time I can think of where like I was
like god damn best of ones and other
than that I think it's mostly been fine
and if you're gonna keep best of one in
tournaments then I'm a hundred cent fine
with it in the regular season I think I
think the only counter to that mark is
that quarters normally suck at Worlds
because you can you could argue it's
because the group-stage does not do as
you trust rate variant matchups what do
you say I say it's cuz there's three
Korean team yeah maybe maybe but I don't
know it's anyway wait I would be one
more question or not question sorry it's
still in the same wine just another
format change like what if you think
they did it Korean style where instead
of it being all stacked on the weekend
they did it throughout the week I don't
that's good for because I just don't
feel like the audience is prepared yet
to tune in on all these different nights
like I think they love the weekends or
LCS it's very concentrated and I think
that that it's much safer for Riot
back to like the tried and true strategy
then just split it up across so much'
nights that's that's where I agree
because I actually don't hate the idea
of trying to split it up a little bit
more to keep a higher number of games I
really do like having more games that's
that's what I do feel you're losing a
little bit more so than like oh man now
it's best of ones versus best of threes
it's more the game number but right now
moving to a franchise model you just
want to move to something that works for
now I think you know there's no saying
that they'll never change it again in
the future I do think they'll be
hesitant to but you just want to go to
something that you have some historical
basis to be like yeah people watch
because the worst thing you could do is
like get all these teams to buy in for
ten million dollars put games on Monday
Wednesday Thursday Friday Saturday
Sunday or something that no one watches
the Monday Wednesday Thursday games okay
all right I agree I just wanted to know
what your guys perspective was thanks
for having me thanks for calling it also
appreciate okay yeah all right so good a
good chat with you all sub I can't move
him I don't know why you lost your
privileges I'll handle it give me my
privileges back okay so next up we have
someone who I believe we're gonna chat
with somebody who is a fan able to
switch back to best of ones and so I'm
interested in sort of here well he
thinks because mostly the fans have been
saying that they're not as much and I
was happy with this so if you want to go
ahead and bring them in Peking Peking is
that how you pronounce your name uh just
kidding what's fun okay with a pea in
front of it King where he come from
Seattle my bully Seattle nice Seattle is
a great city love it West Coast
fantastic so mark as fixing his lighting
right now but maybe you can start to
share some of your opinions on
broadcasts King oh he's fixing that sure
okay so first of all I'd like to say
that I am actually a pretty big fan of
the best-of-three format because for me
that works really well with my schedule
I like to build a binge watch the LCS
but when are you banging it on the
weekends essentially you're sit like
baby watching it live but I've never had
a problem with watching best of ones in
the past and I don't think
anyone else has so I think they do it
it's it's proven to work and I really
like Mark's point earlier where he says
that when we're moving towards this new
model that you know it's proven to be
very effective for the for the crowd
yeah
what so you watch all on the weekends
you were saying sorry yeah okay what did
you think of the dual stream situation
before ah
there were pluses and minuses I mean it
was nice to be able to just sort of
switch between games at my leisure and
her series I mean and you know I mean
that was nice for me because I could
keep track of the games that I wasn't
that I didn't really care about so much
but I could also pay full attention to
the ones that I do care about yeah and
did you find often that you were
switching back and forth because I'm
very curious whether this you you were a
binge watch or you said to you you know
cuz I think a lot of people are casual
fans they maybe watch a little bit at a
time but I'm very curious to sort of
hear like how did you approach the dual
streams and is the the single like the
best one and the single streams going to
help you write this this is where I'm
interested too because I think for a lot
of people we were breaking it down into
two groups where it's people who watch
every game and people who watch casually
and you seem to have a middle group
where you kind of watch every game but
you're still in favor of best of one
exactly yeah
I I really like the best of one format
where I would have one stream up and
just watch the whole thing and that was
great you know and I mean there's kind
of pluses and negatives to the whole
thing as far as like the the pro players
and the practice that they get like it's
debatable whether or not one game is
gonna give them enough practice against
certain teams as three games would but
then again most of the times it's
favored one side or the other and the
losing team doesn't seem to get that
much better afterwards so I think that
it's probably better to just split it
apart
give them time
in between games in between teams that
they have to play let him speak with the
coaches and analysts make it best of one
and you know structure their scrams a
little bit better with right interaction
like they had said in the post today I
think it's a good system yeah so one one
point and thank you for calling him
peeking and we're moving back up to the
top as I rant about this a little bit
one point that we've heard a lot is like
you know stage experience and this and
that and that was something that I think
you heard pro teams talking about in
season five four or five before they
really started you know playing in this
best of three setting and now that
they've done it you haven't really heard
them say oh wow this was so great
because we got so much more experience
in a while and I know a lot of teams are
at Worlds right now so they're probably
not thinking about the potential changes
back to best of one but I also don't
think I've seen any where the players
come out and been like oh man this best
of one's really gonna hurt my ability to
learn the game because I play less games
I mean they still scrim all the time
most them work more officer room data
well and they said that they were going
to or that they had talked to a lot of
the players and that the majority them
agreed that this would be a better
system now what is very funny is I'm
very curious to know how Pro players
would have felt about this if you'd ask
them this like this time last year
because what has changed now is that pro
players are getting a rev share next
year of the LCS and so if you go to the
players and say listen we know this you
won't be as competitive because you're
gonna be doing this but better you're
gonna make more money because we're
gonna make more money because better
viewership means more money it's
interesting now like the pro player
incentives have changed you can go down
the tinfoil hat Theory it's not that -
it's just like a little little piece of
tinfoil on your hair but what I'll say
is I like even without any other
incentives to consider about the money
and this and that I just haven't heard
people really be like oh man that's the
ones are gonna suck for us now and like
team owners I know we're in favor of
this like they were all behind the
scenes talking about how like best ones
we're gonna be better I'm sure they're
thinking more about their bottom line
than the players are so I can understand
it for them but for players a lot of
them
are more motivated I think by like
winning and things like that and I still
haven't heard anyone come out but like I
said a lot of more busy at world yeah
very true do we have somebody else too
sorry I was I was tangent in there first
thing you know it's all good
I see panda porn star asking a question
maybe that's the person we're gonna get
to get our first repeat caller yeah
maybe
what was the asking about semen you know
I defend the best one for Matt and how
this may affect the European League all
right let me let me grab him back down
if you're just tuning in for the first
time you can't call into the show I'll
go ahead and put the description up on
the screen or the check the discord link
up on the stream you joined the discord
ask your question and the general chat
make sure you're in the general audio
channel and you get a chance to be on
the stream talking to both me and Marc
and sharing your opinions and your
questions with the stream I'm gonna have
mark come back here in just a second
with panda porn star who I believe we
spoke to last week a second time caller
hello panda porn star welcome back hello
remind me where you called from last
week uh from SoCal right he was the
bashful TSM TSM fan well either way
panda porn star talking about best ones
what do you think of the change um
overall I do think it's better because a
lot of my friends in my friend group
they had like a really tough time
watching the best-of-three format so I
hope this could like bring them back
into it because I was like the only
person that try to watch every game and
it is a time commitment I can understand
why like people may be skeptical of this
but I don't think the best-of-three
format made any of that much better yeah
I like skill level right yeah well first
off yeah I'm curious mark do you think
about this cuz I think it was fian
earlier who was tweeting about how they
thought he felt like cuesta threes were
a good chance for North America to
improve and I pointed out that like it
doesn't feel like they've improved so
far for us so I'm just
curious on your take on it do you think
that it was helping I think it was
helping but I don't think it was like
this
oh my god were suddenly really good I
think what was better was like a larger
commitment to infrastructure teams take
it more seriously like TSM summer split
were they like super try hearted almost
friendly full Korean schedule helped I
think like the behind the scenes stuff
will be much more important than like we
got to play you know an extra 20 games
during the regular season yeah yeah I
think I think I think your practice is
more important so panda porn star you
said something about Europe as well oh
I'm actually really curious how this
affects the EU Lee because na is gonna
be franchise neck split we still don't
know what exactly is going on with EU do
you think they're also going to go back
to best the ones I actually have no idea
this is a very good question yeah
Europe's been pretty quiet on it I
wouldn't be too surprised because they
haven't given too much away but if
you're having you know what is it eight
leagues yeah or four four four leagues
with eight teams and them are six teams
in them that's so many games for that
region and I don't think anyone's gonna
even attempt to watch all the teams
they'll probably swatch the best ones
and maybe their region or something so I
would assume that it would be best of
once most likely yeah and not to mention
the fact I mean you were talking about
how it felt like this didn't really help
the format change to best of three
didn't really help na that much I think
what might help in a and sort of offset
this is that Europe is changing and
going to this crazy thing they're not
going to be competitive anymore no
matter where it's a one less opponent we
have to worry about when we get to these
international tournaments are you saying
we're gonna like have four spots for
like planes or something or yes well I
have Travis it's my my real quick one
was you said your friends had a hard
time watching best of three so they
stopped watching the NA LCS entirely and
if so what what was sort of their
reasoning it was just like there's too
much games and they really didn't like
the double stream they
really just prefer like coming home
turning on riot games and whatever is on
like that's what they're watching you
know right easier for them but um I'd
like all of them would still like watch
their favorite teams like and I know
they'd always like watch the TSN games
but like they can't be bothered to watch
like envy versus echo fox like so about
that if did did the fact that they were
watching less make them less interested
because they no longer knew what was
going on with those other teams so it
was like yeah we'll watch the TSM games
and there's a dual stream and that's
annoying but yeah they like less
invested in the league cuz they just
knew less about it cuz they watched
fewer other teams yes I'm what do you
call it recently they like asked me
they're like why are ATC's like buying a
what's it called like relic shield at
the beginning of the game they're like
what is this time like I had to explain
to him like oh that's so stupid and like
they really didn't like how like much to
like the game is changing I guess but I
think if they were like still interested
in League they'd be like for it but it
is not
yeah well hey thank you so much panda
porn star I'm wondering if there's
anybody in the chat who wants to defend
best of threes and you know stick around
and chat about that I don't know looking
for those people right now mark looks
like he might have another caller lined
up yeah this guy sounds like it might
have a crazy idea
okay can I get oh goodbye a panda porn
star alright bring it back if you want
it no it's okay he's had more time than
anybody else yeah yeah everyone thanks
for tuning in at to hotline League we're
chatting about best ones best three the
NA LCS format be talking about something
different soon I am sure but let's go
ahead and west rook welcome to the show
where you calling for a low I'm calling
from Corvallis Oregon okay Corvallis
Oregon
that's our coast another West Coast City
West Coast and what is your take on this
whole best one best a three thing okay
so my take my idea is more about the
viewership aspect right and the
viewership for the LCS matches
especially invested three varies up and
down especially with the the
teams are playing and I know that no one
really wants to watch a best-of-three or
any kind of extended match between like
really bottom of the table teams like
echo fox TL stuff like that but people
are really interested in like co gc9
TSM so my idea is that every single week
that if the top five team plays another
top five team then that match turns into
a best-of-three that way you get a lot
of viewership exactly where you want it
right because people are gonna stick
around for the top teams playing each
other for all three games what you guess
it there'd be a lot of logistical
problems with that because you like the
top for instance sometimes you have ties
especially the beginning of the split
where like you might have like four
teams tied for third place
and so then kind of how do you do yes
I'd like what is a top five team or not
yeah so the the start of the split would
be really hard because obviously teams
are really going up and down but I would
you know how sometimes a schedule is
based on previous splits results for
example TSM c9 playing each other at the
start yeah so why not do something like
that where the the teams that did well
last playoffs are the ones that give
best threes at the start and then as the
leak sort of sorts itself out if Phoenix
won or fly quest really really start
getting up there then they get a best of
three yeah I think part of the thing is
is that you often have so much turnover
and change especially between summer and
spring split where you don't know like
the top team from the previous split
might be the worst team and and even in
this one we're probably gonna see
different teams coming in with all new
rosters because of the form the the
changes so I think it's kind of hard to
seed that system there there's a whole
bunch of other concerns too like you're
just rewarding the top teams right so if
the argument that some people are making
has any validity to it that more games
on stage is good which is one of the
concerns people have right now if you
move to your system you're basically
rewarding the good teams from yeah and
giving them more opportunities to get
better yeah it's not it's not a fair
system particularly for a system for the
players and the teams but it is what I
can think of as the most optimal
viewership
experience for for someone like me all
right so that's a lot of flaws if we are
just going for optimal viewership what
if instead of best of three people still
play best of threes but instead the
first game is League of Legends the
second game is just a wrestling match
between the two two captains and then
the third game if it goes to a third
then you go back to these legends so I
was just a rap battle but you're right
yeah rap battle it'll be good but I
think that's a more optimal viewership
thing right I mean I just say it's also
terribly so we went over the competitive
side about how if there's any validity
to that what I mean like for branding
for teams no team would ever sign up for
this system like that's true why would a
team be like oh yeah I'm echo Fox I've
never been good and I'm trying to get
fans but here I'll play less games and
have less screen time significantly if
you're gonna do that system you may as
well just cut out half the teams that
you don't care about cuz that's
basically what you're saying keep six
teams and just run best the 3s with them
single stream right but have the teams
in the league no one really cares about
anyways like the point is to make the
point is to make an ecosystem where you
like every team does have some fans I
suppose so but the thing about league of
legends and especially the fan bases in
legal legend is you don't have like
teams assigned to cities so you can't
just be oh I'm for this team because I'm
from that city there's not really a
reason why you would be a fan of like
echo fox / TSM RC - - Rick Fox or frog
in - I see those are very small things
but the the top seeded teams the teams
that have been here from the start have
the fan base they have the merchandise
they have the personalities they have
the success people don't have to be sad
like Team Liquid fans they can they
there's not really a reason to be a fan
of a bottom tier team like fly quest I
think but I think that's something that
riot probably wants to solve right like
you don't wanna try to grow you're not
trying to pigeonhole yourself into six
okay that's the only teams you'll ever
have fans of you want to grow as an
eSport because to Mark's point like at
that point in time if you if you were
deciding if you're gonna start making
decisions assuming that people aren't
gonna care about the bottom teams
then you probably do just switch to like
a 16 League because who cares about the
bottom four right okay yeah I think
about it that's quick before your time
on the show I think we're gonna be
talking to somebody who wants to offend
best of threes here in a second mark if
you want to go chat with him again Thank
You Westbrook for the callin and if
you're just tuning in this is a call-in
show talk to fans too currently talk
about best ones best of threes well
hello I do welcome to the show you know
what's up where are you calling from
I'm calling from Chicago Illinois home
of the server's home of 15 ping okay
there you go you already enjoy your
privilege that already means my opinions
better than everyone else's oh all right
yeah I do
what is your take on the best of the
best one situation so as for best of
three I think that it's just healthier
for the league because in general a lot
of the picks that we see coming out I
see you know I think of specifically
west or I will watch a lot of LMS and
West or he's known for his fists he's
known for his TF and those are champions
that can be kind of pinched in a best-of
one but if you put it into best of three
you know you can't really pinch them as
easily and he's gonna bring out other
things he's gonna bring out I don't know
like Azir something that he's not as bad
at west or isn't exactly the the star
mid laner he used to be but um he's
definitely an example for why best of
ones probably aren't so healthy for LEC
meta and diversity I feel like just
wanted to talk about west door way to
make this this question door though yeah
so I will say I do like the point that
you're bringing up less so about west or
more about your subs generally I don't
know if it'll be worse for the meta
because I feel like maybe you do see
less adaptation or just like generally
weird picks because every game you're
just trying to go for your most optimal
draft not sure how much I buy into that
because I don't I feel like what is
played is more often defined by the meta
and like what's viable then than that
well I do think it is a great point for
subs and if we're if you know they're
trying to push this idea of a 10 man
roster on the Academy team and people
can move up and down if you're only
playing best of ones it's really hard to
put someone in for a game lose and then
say all right well let's swap back to
our main guy and we know we gave this
guy's some experience I do think it's a
great point about subs in general right
and I think that subs are going to
probably be the biggest dynamic that's
impacted by either best or one best of
three on you look at a player like Yi
hung from RNG like that guy will never
get any playing time unless a little
extra like really screws up in a
best-of-three
and they really just need like a
strategy change so junglers top laners
mid laner specifically not really ADC
but those players are super impactful
for best of threes because you can just
change out the parts that aren't really
working in your strategy and your
in-game shot-calling
and that will just change the entire
flow of the game for a best-of-three do
you not think that there will be
opportunities to use sub players and
lower risk games whenever you're like
the first place team and you're ahead by
a couple games and week nine probably I
mean a lot of the time towards the end
of the season there's a battle for that
playoff by and it's there's maybe one
team who can maybe take advantage of the
fact that they're safe a split that's a
lot lower than like think about how many
subs we saw from echo fox and Dignitas
and like all these things and you're
potentially saying that you're gonna see
so many less all of a sudden that I do
think it's a good good point about the
sub situation yeah yeah I don't think
it's exactly healthy for the diversity
of teams and we spend maybe the past
year year and a half to cultivate
six-man rosters this rotating roster
that SKT really implemented first more
than anyone and made it work invested
once which was something that
B is an argument for best of ones if
we're talking about six-man but as for
every other team you don't really see
them saying all right let's just put in
this player for one game see how it
works because genuinely generally if you
have you know a sub jungler one is going
to be better than the other you're not
going to pick up two great junglers and
K Cup roster space like that yeah I
think look I do think that I suspect you
guys will be surprised because I think
we will still see subs because I think
that you know as skits he was doing it
before and sure they were very good but
I think nobody else is really doing it
because they weren't as forward-thinking
and you know it's Table one question by
the way
will we see subs if your sheep
viewership keeps dropping and teams
can't afford to pay them that is that's
an interesting thought yeah you want to
talk about that one then I'm not to
roost and I I guess like cap space you
could say yeah I don't think that's a
huge concern every team that's coming in
right now has a ton of money and subs
are probably gonna be relatively cheap
on the academy teams I mean obviously
the point Travis is making here is less
about the actual money and more like
long term if the league's viewership
keeps going down that's a much bigger
concern then man they couldn't swap
between all tech and this guy yeah yeah
yeah I mean on that note you know I was
thinking the other day that I'm gonna
keep getting flamed because I watch OPL
I guess but I mean by every other region
Taiwan and China and Korea and Korea
ya know you yet we're not there in
regions no reason to yeah no reason
yeah alright who cares about a best of
two great so what sorry did you have a
final thought here yeah so just on that
note you know money impacting six men a
player like ami who's I would think is a
super cheap six man to pick up he hasn't
been on a team for a year still
insanely strong mechanical player got
tons of experience and if you can't pick
up players like that for cheap anymore
then I think it's gonna choke hold a lot
of the diversity yeah sorry to burst
that bubble but most popular players who
disappear do it because they're making
more money streaming and you usually
can't pick them up for cheap I'm sure
some would love to grab I'm a cutie pie
oh yeah I don't think you can buy Otis
five million contracts which there is so
thank you so much I know mark it is time
for us to do a bit of a break also I see
you've got two people queued up or they
just talk about best ones and best of
threes because I do think maybe maybe we
take these two last calls and then we
switch gears a little bit
sure let's just add more talking about
worlds after these to you guys yeah that
you said you want to talk about playing
stage so I think that'll be interesting
so why don't we do this well we'll talk
to these two guys we'll go on a break
when we come back we'll talk about
worlds sounds good okay so go do that
check on these guys well he's in the
other channel I want to thank all the
people who have subbed during the show
we've got zodiac she pre-sub consulate
64 sub D Park 95 subbed elder L sub
liquid crush subbed and that was two
months
thank you for liquid question for reso
Bing and QT Stevens cute Kate Steven
system either way thanks so much we've
got bards Thresh light great name the
banks and pick room
great name where you calling from bards
Thresh light I'm calling from coming
Georgia it's just outside Atlanta also
great what is on your mind
yeah is it is that a real place I don't
actually I'm going to ask either way
yeah we used to have coming police on
our cop cars that was great that's great
what is your question or a topic for the
discussion so I think best of ones
overall instead of playing the best of
three is better for viewership and the
players they don't it's kind of better
for them but through a season with best
of threes you get if for instance if you
win a game of the best of three but you
lose the other two you still have that
game in a tiebreaker sense
towards the end of the season which is
huge so
every other tiebreakers like if you are
winning for 90% of a game and still lose
that game and a best one it still counts
as a loss and you have nothing really to
show for it because we don't have a very
good secondary tiebreaker system game
time I mean but yeah but and then the
other thing is with every other sport
there's a home at home typically like
home home it's even the sport doesn't
change but League Legends the medic
shifts and that can almost take away
like that home and home advantage which
is something I think they need to
account for so mystery kind of does a
little bit since you can get that
tiebreaker a little bit I mean the point
still stands either way though if your
new meta where red sides better and you
get your double red side series on that
meta the point still stands you're
getting two of the better games whereas
now yeah you might get the one game but
you'll get your own blue game later so
no matter what you're getting balanced
games and the meta shifts will influence
that either way so for me that's a bit
of an on point and the tiebreaker
situation while I agree it sucks and
something best-of-three does do better
it is for me a little lower down on the
totem pole than what we're trying to
like what you know are the problems
facing the league yeah I mean I'm a fan
of best ones because viewership is going
to be overall improves because I don't
watch nearly as much as I used to this
when it was on best of ones yeah and I
think that's I think it's good to bring
up the fact that ties are a little
weirder now and it always feels bad when
they do the game game time tie break or
or something like that
I would just love to see them play a
game but then you know who gets the blue
side who gets the red side that kind of
stuff does come up then and I think
those are some good points but at the
end of the day if the problem is people
like you are no longer watching as much
that that's what they gotta fix yeah
very good well thank you so much
Bard's thresh light from cummings
Georgia one last person we've got
primary here joining up in just a second
and I want to get a shout out chrono MK
for the sub how's it going prime re
where are you calling from
Phoenix Arizona Phoenix Arizona has it
is it cool down about their headers are
still boiling it's cooler okay yeah only
like 90s yeah fantastic
well the other way as your is your sweat
in here that's for the question was
you're you're taking all this so my
perspective is from being a position
coach for the NA LCS GOG to be specific
okay
and from my point originally a position
coach for Lou more when were your
position coach for them last split okay
which which position primary support
support okay all right so best of ones I
think a lot of people have been pointed
out that it's been constantly a
competitive integrity kind of standpoint
but the the team's get a lot of practice
in scrims
and I think scrims are gonna be a lot
more important now to be able to attract
trends and whose plane would and what so
P the things in the best of threes is
that you know the first game you know
you've been trying something in scrims
all week you can test it out on the
first game and they're just like falls
flat but you still have two games to
play your you know back to meta or back
like comfort pics whereas having this
option where it's the best of one you
got to come out strong every time so I
think it will actually be more
competitive in that sense I think a lot
of to one's TSM for example where they
lose the first game and they pick it up
right away because like because then
they lose if they if they don't so I
think you'll see less of that I think
you'll see a lot more you know priority
on that initial game and they're gonna
practice for it so the the meta might be
a little more stale in my opinion but I
think so that might hurt viewership in
that sense but I think overall being
able to watch all the NA LCS games cuz
even though it's my job to track games
you know lck LPO not too much time for
Europe but like I can't watch all the NA
LCS games unless they're like within our
next two weeks so schedule yeah so I
like this point in to summarize people
it's basically scrims are still like the
most important thing for improving less
about stage experience what you are
losing
maybe some experimentation onstage but
at the end of the day it means we'll be
trying harder in all their games because
every single one is supposed to be a win
yeah yeah I do like that a lot
I didn't even really think about that
too much so I'm glad you raised the
point that like there's a good chance
that so people I think whatever people
are talking my competitive integrity
they talk a lot about at first time I
think they're using it incorrectly it's
more around the ruleset or whatever but
whenever they're talking about code of
strength they mean more like best of
threes are better for North America when
we get to the international stage
because we'll have had more games on the
stage and practice there's an
interesting situation here where perhaps
the games on stage the ones that we see
will all be way more intense and way
higher caliber because people won't be
doing any weird shit in the first game
they will want to try hard because
everything is on that one game so it's a
good point
primary and thank you so much for
calling in good to get to have you on
and I hope Arizona cools off even more
soon appreciate it and I hope CLG is
better in xsplit yeah oh my kicking our
addresses boom there you go alright so
now get into the break mark do you want
to queue up maybe the next question so
that we can have people join the chat
think about questions think about
discussion topics yeah absolutely so
when we come back from break we're gonna
be shifting our focus to a little bit
more about worlds and specifically the
play on stage it wrapped up late last
night early this morning technically and
I've been talking to a lot of people
about it I've seen posts on Reddit on
Twitter talk some na casters talked to
some European casters everyone who was
at the LCS about how it felt to watch as
a viewer did it ruin some of the hype
did you like it more those kinds of the
things I want to ask people if you're
from a minor region I definitely want to
hear what you have to say because you
you know how was this different for you
than the International wildcard
qualifiers things like that so that is
what we'll be talking about and here we
are now on the break ok we're on break
so everyone hotline League is brought to
you by viewers like you
who can sub to this channel for
half-off right now they extended it into
October but I don't know when we're
gonna get to another one of these
hopefully whenever I'm in China next
week after the groups mark and I will
have to figure it out but we're gonna
keep trying to do this but if you want a
sub you can do so we give you a shout
out on the show I do want to thank
everybody who is sub so on the show
really appreciate you can also donate
directly travis gaffer comm slash
support which I'm putting into the
twitch chat and if you're watching the
Vaught it will be in the youtube
description so thank you very much I'm
mark and I are getting Korean barbecue
after this and Mark I know this but mark
makes me pay for every one of his meals
whenever we we eat together so if you
want to help me cover Mark's Korean
barbecue tab after the show any support
right now would be very appreciated I
didn't even know where I was going I was
just volunteered for Korean barbecue I
guess I told you the restaurant name you
know did you yeah also somebody just
message me about Korean barbecue because
we're being joined by somebody else Ovie
actually either way also want to give a
shout out to they're not an official
sponsor of the show but listen we're all
gamers all right we all like watching
these world's gonna have a lot of games
going on you're gonna want to watch them
you just want to be comfortable you want
to be comfortable you know whether
you're man or woman while you're
watching the stuff while you're playing
League of Legends and let me tell you
there is nothing more comfortable than
me on these they have fantastic
underwear
they now have bra let's for the ladies
they've got socks they got all sorts
great things and by the way not only are
these fantastically comfortable you
could get 20% off your first order me
and Easter comp / Travis cafard it's
amazing guys you got to check the stuff
out they they support you sports a great
la company so comfortable please I
encourage you to check it out and then
finally I told a friend that I'd promote
this show if I could find out where is
it where is it where is it I think it's
this yes
walking is doing a giveaway they're
sending you to Worlds
if you want if you win the grand prize
you get a fully covered trip to Beijing
China to attend the 2017 lol World
Championship final by the way even if
you're like I don't want to go to China
and I don't want to see the finals
between TSM and SKT because you're an
SKT fan and you you don't want to see
the three go
they are also giving away a thousand
dollars in our P mice keyboards all
sorts great stuff so this is a it's just
bit dot ly / la king world's sure you
can go find it over on their Twitter and
all that if you want to as well simple
simple way to sign up but not too many
people signed up yet so I think your
chances are pretty good as they stand
either way we are back now hotline
League mark we're talking about world
specifically plans and your question is
how was the viewership experienced right
yep how did you feel I want everyone's
perspective minor regions Manor each
made by BOTS but yeah you likey let's
talk a little you and me we can talk a
little bit about it so my my take was I
had I mean I think I represent a
standard in a fan in that I don't have
as much enthusiasm for the other regions
outside of international tournaments
plans obviously an international
tournament but for me it was just hard
because I felt like like worlds to me
doesn't really feel like it starts until
groups and it was hard to care about the
event whenever I knew that like the vast
majority of these teams were not going
to be getting into groups so you know
right obviously cared mostly about cloud
9th games because I wanted to see if
they were gonna make it and I like I
said but it felt like they were almost
certainly going to so I don't know
that's kind of my take on plans like it
they were fun to have but like for me
world starts at groups so two questions
for you then one did you like seeing c9
kind of proved that like yeah I should
be at Worlds even if you know I'm the
third see from North America I shit on
these other regions and - do you feel
like then there was a mistake on riot to
kind of brand it as the start of worlds
yeah so one I didn't I wouldn't say I
cared too much in fact I would have it
on like I'd have it on my main screen
and then it would get moved to my second
screen and then once I was like this
game is over I'd be like just
tuning it out and doing something else
so I don't think that that was
particularly valuable to me it wasn't
like oh yeah it's loud mine's gonna
prove it because again like like it
would have been it actually would have
been more interesting to me if cloud 9
hadn't made it which obviously is not
something like his 3 and 18s that feels
good is an a content creator but it's
hard to feel like them making it was
like something I could really celebrate
or whatever because it was so obviously
and the second thing is yeah we talked
about this before with MSI you know I
feel like MSI it was way too long and
confusing because there's like plans
starting and people were messaging me we
talked about this on League weekly I
think whenever we were at doing this
show for Yahoo and again like yeah
worlds is so long you don't need to make
it even longer by branding planes this
world's maybe it's easier to sell to
sponsors and so that's kind of answer
for my fear ship perspectives there
might be business reasons to do it but
why don't you just call these like the
International Worlds qualifiers or
something so one of the reasons for my
Norwegian teams that I I heard being
brought up was the fact that it's nice
to be included as a part of group of
like world your when you're in the
International wildcard qualifier it
doesn't receive the hype of worlds you
don't get the respect of going to world
you know now they could say I attended
Worlds just like c9 attended Worlds and
those yeah that might be fair I don't
know it's just hard I think if that's
the case I mean I don't know how you
would do this but like figuring out how
to trim down another part of worlds
because it's just like it is so long you
know we're going from the end of
September the began November it's hard
to think of too many other like
culminating sporting events that go this
long that have a an hi I have a hot take
about about the whole do they deserve
sad Cod I'll give later but first I
don't want to taint the discussion will
grab the first guest speakers Colin so
good if you want to go grab people we've
got some people that are gonna chat to
us about this if you're tuning in for
the first time it's Colin show we've got
if you want to join and chat with us
here's the discord info up on the screen
and it looks like we got chrono who is I
believe a new sub to the chain
welcome to the show chrono hello again
still pretty good Brady Conn from Chrono
College from the good old Midwest
Madison Wisconsin Madison Wisconsin okay
and and what is your topic or what's
your take on world's plants all right
yeah so fir plains in general I was kind
of mainly looking at the UH kind of two
things one from a North American viewers
perspective I think a lot of people were
saying you know thread it and through a
bunch of other channels that
yeah the viewing times sucked for us and
it makes sense that the viewing time had
to suck it's obviously in develop Holden
in China they're trying to get as many
viewers as possible out of the most
viewing region China so it's I don't
blame China from right sorry for making
the decision they made in having
determined what it was okay so I want to
make sure that just right now we squash
this whole time zone thing if anyone
tries to call in and talk to me about
the time zone I'm instantly throwing you
out of here we're getting it out of the
way first I don't care it's in China so
it should be for the Chinese audience
the same way it was in North America it
was for the North American audience and
yes you try and make the times work it
was very nice that scene I started their
games at 8:00 p.m. PST that's basically
as good as you could hope for but you
need to understand that there's people
all over the world who want to watch so
you know I understand you didn't enjoy
that as North American fan that's not
what I'm asking I'm asking about the
rest of playing stage so no I was I was
totally agreeing with you I said that
besides obviously the time zone issues
what did you think of plans did you get
a chance to watch it and you know what
it was this interesting compelling unity
to feel like as part of worlds yes so I
watched pretty much the entire thing I
I'm in central times that means some
stay until like 5:00 a.m. which was not
a good decision but yeah
watch the watch the games anyways um I
think that the level of competition
between all the teams was actually
really really good I think that with
only a couple exceptions like you know
some crazy blowouts between c9 and some
of the teams that are facing a lot of
the games are really fun to watch and
just watching the games in general even
compared
last world's like there was that
statistic quoted on reddit you know 61
picks and riff travels compared to 57 of
the entirety of last worlds and you can
say you can we can debate whether that's
because the 10 banned sister sorry 5
band versus 3 banned system or if that's
just a better and different meta like
it's a bunch of different things overall
I think that this has been a really good
viewing experience between just the
games themselves so you're obviously
someone who enjoys watching League you
had a lot of fun watching this event
where would you put yourself on like the
hardcore to casual fan spectrum oh I'm
like if it's 1 out of 10 then look at 9
or 10 I've done coaching all over the
place kind of stuff yeah I mean I
assumed we were staying up till 5 that's
yeah yeah yes so from I guess like
taking a straw man from the casual
perspective like if I'm a casual and a
fan and ignoring the fact that these
games are 5 a.m. let's say I'm watching
on you know la vent fobs reddit or some
other way of watching the games
afterward um I think that the the
casting the way the cast was done was
very professional almost identical to
you know how they done the full worlds
experience before they you know had the
analysis they had interviews all over
the place it was just really well done
overall and I think that the fact that
they can have this amount of
professional casting and analysis for a
month and a half is really good and yeah
very good well thanks thanks so much
colonel for calling in good take good
take
yeah just ended up if you want to go
investigate that Marc and I want to say
thank you to sign TFA for subbing and
we'll put for subbing and Volks LOL for
subbing as well to the stream always
nice to get the support of the audience
and by the way notice that we lost one
person mark I joined he just left
ok I thought they were talking in the
waiting room and one of this one of the
things that he was gonna say the other
guy said so he kind of got it well Lucas
thank you for joining the broadcast
where he called from Lucas unfortunately
Charlottesville Virginia okay well I
know it's a crazy place to be right now
about either way once you talk to us a
little bit about your take on the
world's plans so for me I was not the
one staying up to watch it I watched all
the vods afterwards after I was back for
my classes and I thought with it being
in a similar style like groups best of
ones it gave the wildcard teams a chance
and games
I said wildcard region watching the
minor regions go up against each other I
thought was really exciting a lot of the
picks that they do are different because
of the apply styles it's raw skill it
carry champs especially in the top lane
you see Camille and Jax being picked and
they just write each other I really
enjoyed that but as far as watching the
major regions fnatic w/e and c9 play I
didn't really like it
okay it felt like a waste of time some
of the games where I was like no matter
how badly they choose you in the early
game or anything you're they're just
gonna lose anyway because they don't
know how to close out games at all yeah
you've done raw skill like you could see
some of the ADEs all from the other
regions were really good but other than
that there was no way they could did you
did you ever watch the old you know wild
card tournaments
I do not okay so do you think that you
did you because it seems like you were
really interested in watching the wild
card teams or as a formerly known as the
the team's formerly known as a wild card
regions play each other and do you think
that that's just you just didn't get
exposed to it before but because this
was rolled so you were able to watch
them yeah I liked having all the casters
like Katherine flowers and stuff like
that being able to cast the games you
know for the wild-card regions I really
enjoyed that it's it was a lot more
accessible to me rather than watching
the old tournaments they used to have to
play in the world so yeah yeah so
another question I have would be so you
said you didn't like watching
cloud9 play because they stomped them
but do you feel like if they weren't in
there would you still want to watch it
as much like the major region teams and
then - do you feel like you would
appreciate the individual
skill of these players as much if they
didn't play them because you know
someone like White Lotus we could watch
him go off against you know other minor
region teams but watching him perform
well-versed w/e and c9 made it more
impressive in some sense right even
though they ended up getting stomped a
lot of the time yeah I I can get behind
that reasoning I mean I liked watching
c9 absolutely smash teams because it
just proved that they deserve to go
through and be in worlds as a third seed
in a team and it's reassurance for major
regions that you deserve to be there so
I can get behind that
and I think it is more impressive for
these emerging emerging regions to go up
against teams like WEC 9 and fnatic and
a flares pop off like they did so yeah
ouch angrily it's out about us it's
about these other regions it's kind of
like what Mark was suggesting earlier
yeah very good well thank you so much
Lucas I really appreciate you coming on
the show and hope to hear from you in
future shows looks like we're gonna have
somebody else joining up in just a
second checking subs right now to see if
they'll say no okay how's it going hello
oh yeah where you calling from I'm from
Argentina actually from South America so
here I am thank you for the show first
oh yes oh by the way I think she's made
know he's not my my native language so
I'm sorry if I sound like like monkey
well I think the the audience waste was
way bigger than than the other licker
tournament so from a perspective of
disposer exposure sorry and I think the
players and the teams were we're happy
to be included you know like like Mark
said earlier though I really think that
is there's no big point of doing this
because you know what what's gonna
happen so III
to see kind of here plain but it was
kind of obvious that even if we we
managed to get to the to the second part
of the competition where we were gonna
lose against c9 or team w e orphan and
watcher or whatever so we were watching
more like from the means and from the
perspective of an underdog and waiting
to see lion or orphan Abacha or or kylie
hey going to to the actual it works yeah
I mean so I admittedly like you said
there's a very slim chance that this was
gonna happen
but are you happy that it happened
anyway even even though you believe that
like there was maybe a little pointless
yeah absolutely this was there was no
point at all in making this a part of
the of the actual world so it was but do
you want them to do it again next year
if you could yeah totally okay yeah I
really like me so you feel you feel the
same way as you know North American
European fans whenever they watch worlds
there's no point you know you're just
experiencing the same thing we all
experience but earlier on in the
tournament well you you every every year
you say the same thing no like this is
the year well I kind of feel the same
yeah I know this is the year buddy of
course it's not I actually love this
take that like what you don't understand
is America fnatic Europe all these all
these other major regions are really
just minor regions that just don't get
exposed so later by Korea but then you
hear Korean players saying that you
teens or or any teams are actually
dangerous like of course you're gonna
win but you can spend something from TSM
for example or form g2 of course you're
not expecting the same from from
Renovatio or from Calicut but i honestly
think you teams or any teams can
actually do something against the big
big place big chains sorry i really feel
so can you talk to me a little bit about
what your viewing experience was like
did you because you know we're sitting
in our like
American home like what like oh yeah
plans or whatever was this like a pretty
cool thing for the eSports community in
your area or did you just watch it at
home kind of the same way everybody else
does
well the playing was at my 2 a.m. from 2
a.m. to 7 a.m. so it was kind of
difficult but I'm currently writing for
article from for riot for riot in Latin
America salt so I was kinda it wasn't
like my job to say watching I from from
time to time I I again I really think
there's a good chance from from every
team to to to play against the better
the best teams yeah so I really think
I'll hey it's going to be a better team
this next season that that was before
playing against fnatic for example or
young generation it the same with Lion
of course but lion has no chance at all
to play against so it's going to be the
same next year did you wash
International wildcard qualifiers
previously and no no no you did you
tuned in specifically because it was
like oh well now they're gonna play
fnatic right away well I I watched the
finals i watch like any cameras to see
to lose gaming which is which was the
final animagus out but before that is
like i mean from my perspective I kinda
used to watch lck and and North America
so it was like I am going to to say
something but but it was like watching
tennis from from men men Chinese too but
it was like 2 different velocities so it
was like slow and sloppy and you know
full of oh I don't know it was he was
very hard to see actually I actually
love this opinion because I think it's
something that North American fans don't
wanna like kind of feel like they're
better then you know Latium south or
whatever it is and it's like well it may
be a little bit but in the grand scheme
of things you know I know simple will be
like I am a big Barcelona final round
that is fun because I watch a lot
of international football soccer you
know soccer for you but then I watch my
league my entire Cantina League and I
want to give myself not in a real way
but I it's like two different velocities
and it's get kinda boring and it's awful
to see renames very awful well I mean
I'm watching Asian against kalakeya
after seen along so they mean against a
city and you say what the fuck is going
on and then you you finally understand
why Latin America South and Latin
American art even even Brazil are so far
away from from the biggest regions yeah
so I think it's gonna be okay so the
last question here before before we move
on the next color now that you know the
regions have been decided for who's
going to the main main part of worlds
who near it for what who do i sorry who
do you root for now from group stage on
i'm kinda i'm disappointed because i i'm
a big that's fun you're the guy I can i
I'm that one I'm the one who likes every
tweet you know that's me but so I I'm
not very very I don't like the ni teams
to this world so I'm and kind of
chanting for missus yeah love you Steve
yes sorry one last question so one of
the things people were suggesting was do
this format again we're you know fanatic
world elite see 9:00 Thursday from
regions still have to prove that they
deserve their spot at Worlds by beating
the every region seems but they were
saying don't label it as the start of
world's do you think it's important for
you as like you know this emerging
region viewer to label it as the start
of worlds or is it more important that
you're just getting a chance of fanatic
I think well I I also like rugby I don't
know if you know the sport but I am a
big fan of rugby and lightly there's a
tournament called today the dream in by
the eternal eternal darkness which
pronator is a nation the three nation
tournament which place against a new
zealand australia sudan frico and now
the included
in Argentina so from of course it is
gonna lose every match but it since then
the team was start to play better I
think this is gonna be better for the
teams from now on I mean I'm going to
see Kyle shaken if he or any Latin
America South team destroyed one and
over one on our to finale or whatever
but I think eventually they were going
to get better so I kinda expect you to
watch it later
absolutely yeah very good well thank you
so much for the call this was alright I
will say I'm really happy yet favorite
caller
I love Chuck can I can I get a book jump
with an arm emojis or yams for you thank
you very much thank you alright that's
great
really glad that actually did change my
perspective a fair amount yeah I hadn't
had a chance to talk one-on-one with one
of them
yeah well I'm an emerging region yes yes
very good alright so I think maybe we'll
see this could be or may be our last
question from we just open it up to
whatever but if you want to go check
them out as the twitch chat spams
pogchamp that's great love it
zodiac sheep here zodiac sheep a two
month sub of the channel thank you very
much for your support where he calling
from zodiac she most recently of New
Mexico New Mexico New Mexico did we talk
to you last week yes you did we did okay
so our second second caller zodiac
Street what is your take on planes and
what did you think of it so I want to
start off by saying that as far as team
allegiance goes for planes specifically
I'm a total mercenary I do not give a
shit about any of the teams and the
plans not even cloud9 even though I'm
from na okay so when I'm watching this
I'm very impartial I'm here for gameplay
I was in a hosted chat so you know
interacting with the chat whatever and
because how sitting isn't a real job but
I still get paid for it so I can do
whatever I want whenever I want
okay
so I've got a lot of time to watch for
worlds I watched worlds and in the homes
of strangers apparently yes ok and I one
of the things I think was actually a big
issue with worlds other than it being
framed as worlds and a lot of people
disliking that aspect of it was that
right wants to bring in a lot of their
newer casters in your handle it
and such onto the desk right yeah like
they want to give ya like Mark Zimmerman
this guy and they want to give medic
Vettius
all of these guys time to cast
international games show experience etc
but when you're looking at games are of
lower quality in addition to having
casting talent that is frankly of lesser
quality then you're a listers you're
Kobe too fishy oh quick shot Papa smithy
it actually creates a sort of like
feedback loop of problems where you've
got a bad game and a caster that just
isn't as quite as good to sort of
elevate the level of the gameplay and I
think that was actually a big issue with
the whole thing for me was that I was
even though I have all this time even
though I I loved worlds I loved watching
professional league of Legends huge fan
I'm actually putting the video on mute
some of the time yeah where any of them
analyst test segments um sometimes
because specifically get me out of here
specifically with the pauses in with
some of the games there was just nothing
for you guys to analog even if you guys
were like best analysts in the entire
world not just for League of Legends but
for everything like there's not a whole
lot you can do with that oh look you
know young generations got Baron stolen
twice like what do you get to say about
that they suck at Baron setups of course
they do their wildcard team right so I
mean I really understand not listening
to pauses I mean there was that one time
you know the lights went out at the
Super Bowl a couple years ago and like I
didn't sit there watching like man I
can't wait to hear what Phil Simms has
to say about the lights being off you
know that was a bit much
I'm sorry about no that's 100 sinc yet
and I do understand what the idea
because some other people were saying
was labeling this as a start of world's
when it is a you know I think you have a
good point objectively inferior product
in some regards like the gameplay is
worse you know there's no Korean teams
you don't have as you say yourself you
know the ATR casters Kobe Jat officio
Papa smithy whoever you want to say is
your favorite you know you generally
don't have all those guys and in some
way the broadcast team is getting a shot
at worlds the same way some of these
minor region teams are getting a shot at
Worlds yeah and I think that's great for
the casters right this is an awesome
opportunity for medic like a year ago he
was casting challenger series right in
Europe which is you know Europe and now
he's getting to cast a portion of worlds
uh and that's great for him that's a
great opportunity it's gonna give him a
lot of experience he's gonna be better
for it but as a viewer and specifically
um one of the people I was watching
worlds with he's never watched worlds
before never watched professional league
of Legends too much and he's gonna he's
like kind of suffering through this part
and he's like should I even watch groups
is this going to be like this for groups
and we have to assure them yeah we're
gonna have better cast so we're gonna
have better games are going to be closer
they're gonna be more exciting but for a
lot of these first-time viewers or for
people that were already you know kind
of pussyfooting around committing to
watching worlds anyways especially with
how inconvenient can be for a North
American to watch it which I know you
already discuss that but whatever um its
it can actually turn people off of
watching the main stage yeah and I think
as much as I know some people probably
are you know like oh this isn't a
leadest viewpoint or whatever it is I do
think there is a very valid argument to
have that like when it's world's time
the most important thing is putting out
the best possible product you have
regional play if you want to watch your
region or hear your regional casters and
and I think it is as much as some people
might not agree a fair argument to say
that the world's product should be the
premium premium of what League of
Legends has to offer
yeah that's a that's a fair point as
well see I'm so torn I'm so
corn on this because yeah I like the
hello the guy color before I just get
point I feel like this is a fair point
yeah like you don't want to burn people
or turn people away from worlds
especially if the casual fans they're
like world design what is planes oh yeah
you get all this stuff like I mean like
the people who are calling in right now
will absolutely be biased in favor more
games and more everything because I mean
you guys the hardcore fans everyone's
watching two idiots in their rooms
talking about League of Legends so of
course you guys love the second one talk
about zodiac sheep but I mean like you
have to think about the viewers who
aren't going to call on this show the
people who click in from the client who
don't follow esports and they click in
and they see this other stuff going on
they're like I see that my bronze five
games and they close out yeah yeah I
will say I've been pretty negative
towards the playing stage I think line
deserve to go to Worlds I think this is
a good opportunity for a lot of these
these wild-card teams and I'm sad to see
that lion doesn't want to be there isn't
going to be able to get to the main
group stages because it's kind of bad
draws maybe they could have made it
against 1907 Facebook whatever but I
think I think I would appreciate keeping
in the playing stage but really trimming
the fat down I think c9 fnatic w/e all
they have to do is play the best of five
and that that would be my star just try
to trim down the games make it like four
days instead of six something along
those lines to really cut the fat about
this part so you still get international
teams coming to Worlds you still have
casters getting experience on the world
stage getting to flex and show the
town's for people that haven't been
exposed of them so far and but you don't
have to suffer through it in a I suffer
is a harsh word but it does really feel
like really poor quality games sometimes
watching
gambit versus anyone watching rampage
versus anyone watching Vettius predict
rampage winning against anyone those are
all bad moments oh yeah I think him go
before you hurts anyway thanks a lot for
having me on
yeah well
we've wrapped up marks conversation on
plans mark I'll get your opinion here
but maybe we should just say if you are
in the discord chat I'll put the info
back up
maybe we just open the call lines up for
the next 15 or so minutes as we're
wrapping up the show if you have
something that is not related to
anything we've talked about in the show
today
feel free to bake your question and your
topic your discussion point will chat
with you again you join the discord
right there
join the general chat and then go ahead
and put your question and we'll try and
get you on the show
well-put I see is in and there I know
he's a sub maybe we'll grab him when is
the dinner reservation it's at 8:00 okay
so our dude I haven't my heroines right
now my hair only looks this good because
I didn't shower she's fine yeah all
right so either way what is your take on
all this stuff mark kind of wrapping it
up now that you've talked to everybody I
I'm still torn because I started it with
the more na perspective obviously a
major region perspective I talked to I
saw the reddit threads which are still
mostly major regions it's mostly na and
EU on there and then I talked to some
people in the office some of the other
casters even once you aren't working
right now and just watching like some of
the other LCS guys who are waiting for
worlds to start and they all had
relatively similar views but like yeah I
enjoyed it you know I liked that you
know the teams kind of have to prove
themselves but it still feels like hard
to like appreciate as truly the start of
worlds yeah but when you hear it one of
like the minor region fans you know hype
it up so much it's hard to not get
sucked into that as well yeah very good
well as we're getting more questions
going in the chat I know berry string
tkf is a sub well played as a sub if
either those folks have interesting
stuff to talk about but yeah just open
open coms whoever wants to talk to us
can do so you don't have to be a soda
talkin oh no bass bud just spit your
question yeah yeah I always seemed very
strict decaf saying that I hate in which
I don't yeah so I don't know a fight
that's worth having a conversation on
air about that's that's fair that's fair
if you want
grab somebody yeah I got one
okay there you go check it this is this
hotline League by the way I'm talking
taking your calls Ben T I'm concerned
about which Ben T this is I might I
might know you been tea oh no I don't
think so okay I used to work with a
banty so I thought you might be calling
it oh yeah that'd be funny ya know where
are you calling from Ben T Seattle
Washington Oh another Seattle no second
so we got all sorts of West Coast people
on the show today what is your topic
then so I'm a little bit worried about
cloud nine chances of making it out of
groups of course since they're with EDG
and SKT yeah but at the same time with
some of the casters that focus on
watching the LPL talking about how EDG
is probably not one of the strongest
teams coming out of the LPL yeah I'm
wondering like is there you know what
are the chances of cloud nine actually
making it out and having a good showing
at Worlds despite getting a really hard
group and then also good to you yeah
yeah considering the group that they're
in and that their pool three yeah I
would say so okay yeah the second point
is with HQ because HQ is in that group
as well in Group A I'm really wondering
because for cloud nine to make it out of
that group they probably f22 ohq and
people have been saying that LMS is
really weak this year but I'm not
actually sure especially with them going
for Chow II who has looked pretty strong
I'm wondering if HQ is actually gonna be
as bad as people say that they are or if
they're gonna be able to go one in one
yeah vs. cloud nine
I don't know I mean I think you and I
have the same information I don't really
follow you know the LMS like some of our
callers but I do feel like I would see
cloud 9 as a 50/50 chance maybe I don't
know mark yeah I would put it maybe a
little lower than that I think the LPL
analysts are hedging their bets a little
bit I mean
you did win so they have that going for
them yeah and as much as you might say
oh well you know Wu's the better team
they play slower they're not as crazy
this and that it's like well I don't
know it's it's it's hard to say I think
SKT is a shoo-in so you're basically
fighting for 1 in 3 spots
I think HQ even with cha we might
struggle I mean we saw c9 get out over
flash wolves last year so it's still
pretty possible for them to just be
better than HQ easily even if they put
Xiao en they're playing better and then
the question is you know exactly what is
eg fall yeah yep does this help you feel
better yeah a little bit yeah I mean if
your same 50% that OD decent yeah but I
don't know it's is where did the bank go
get go find those eSports betting sites
I will say I will say my predictions
have been pretty good lately okay
Darcy Krishna said rift rivals would do
would do would show North America
strengthened and that happens so we'll
see we'll see yeah I hope cloud 9
doesn't break my heart yeah yeah well
North America does a good job of
breaking everyone's hearts that's true
maybe maybe get a little bit of heart
medication ready for this anyway thanks
so much for the callin back good to talk
to you and let's see we're gonna grab
somebody else looks like looks like
where he's muted yeah that's like you're
not gonna be able to talk to him you
told me in Skype to put him in I mean he
just Pitt he just picked something in
chat well put we're trying to talk to
you but you're you're muted so you know
there goes yeah okay go go check it out
here we go
we'll have where we got about eight more
minutes on the show as we're winding
down well put welcome to the show we
good thank you for the sub really
appreciate have no problem so what were
these chats what do you want to talk
about well I was just want to talk about
like in a similar vein to the last
question but phenomics chances of
getting out of wars sure and by the way
where you calling from what are
Ireland you can't guess I mean it's his
mic is a little little dysentery you
know I just by the way people move
around well they might have an accent
but they might have so you want to know
for the next chance so is this what the
second part of the final part of the
shows it's gonna be all the team fans
calling and being like no words w/e
stances senses what do you think
finances are uh-oh you go first sir no
no no I was just saying I think that
they're all right the big concern for me
is just Brasa because you've we've heard
it all spit long for fnatic you heard a
lot of guys during play is a toxin
talking about proxy being a bit of a
liability potentially and I don't think
they've gone against like a great
jungler yet and Smith is really good
Levi's a god it obviously it's a Korean
team as for long to you so you no matter
what you're like in us bad spot so I
feel like it could be really bad
matchups if you have to worry about that
so I personally don't like fanatics
chances for getting out of this group
and actually think it's close between
them or Dubai marines if we're gonna be
able to get out yeah we're not gonna
even get third get third yeah yeah this
thing can i but I was just wondering
because like after they seemed pretty
shaky in the plan stage but like because
they were playing around
reckless why not but then when they got
into the best of best of fives I found
that it was really like they they
managed to play through caps which was
like huge because they haven't managed
to do that at all like before so like I
was thinking maybe it's a bit more
hopeful than like you know like not at
all like yeah so sorry I was a student
something missing somebody about joining
the call oh can you repeat that for me
real quick just you were saying that the
playing stage they look still pretty
sketchy right yeah pretty shaky but like
us because like they were mainly talking
they were mainly playing through like
reckless and he had like Wong like
pretty bad game where I got caught a few
times and stuff
but in the best-of-five they managed to
play through caps like for two games I'm
like it seemed like you know seemed
maybe a bit more hopeful like or maybe
that's just me get my hopes up for them
it's something I think could work out
for the playing stage I think caps is
probably better than some people give
him credit for I understand he's erratic
but like pobelter is not the kind of
guy's gonna destroy you in lane so I
think like some of those matchups could
be good BD is obviously like a beast but
he did look like mediocre and in the
finals so I think maybe caps can hold
his own but it's it's gonna be really
really tough for him reckless should
still be like a big full point Frank
real are obviously discussing so that's
tough but it is something where you know
maybe they go for some of these more
aggressive lanes we saw him play the
Voorhis lulu lovara seems like a good
potential thing to use so left to see
good I think
thank you for the : thanks Riley good
luck to your team we'll see well I was
trying to bears first drink decaf cuz he
was talking about how he thinks curry is
overrated but uh he's not on the call
he's on the thing he's now he's left
that's over um we got we got time for
about two more calls and let's see what
else we got
okay the Chinese perspective okay is
this gonna be I'm worried about
EDG stances are getting out of groups
what what are the yeah well we'll see
what he's saying okay I would love to
hear someone come in here and talk some
shit - yeah yeah first drink decaf if
you want to get on the show you have to
be in the general chat the call section
that was a general chat well I can't we
can't let you hello sober comrade where
are you calling from
I'm calling from South Florida South
Florida
how's the as how's everything after the
hurricane hit pretty good I have
like lost power for like five days ouch
ouch lucky I'd lucky I was lucky though
yeah people ha yes you know yeah how are
you guys huh well I think we're doing
okay
we certainly it's a afternoon about new
one for me yeah bye
very good well it's so super comrade
what is your question um I was just
thinking that I think it's fair to say
that na has big good chance to have as
many if not more teams that come out of
groups in China
I honestly think that's not like a crazy
thing to say okay yes I am what do you
think that I think China is a little
overrated I watched I watched all the
playing games i watch lck I don't watch
a lot of ochio but I'm like a big fan
and I mean I watch highlights of LPL I
don't want you know like Draft and like
all that but I watched highlights and I
just think China's a little overrated I
think and I think closer than a lot of
people think so who was that the groups
are stacked like for like and I have
either groups in China does like China's
in like I don't think aren't he's making
out of Group C against g2 and Samsung
okay I think they have almost no shot
and via ones but who do you think is
overrating China because I hear most
their analysts saying like yeah they're
only okay yeah because down plate
because dump dumping your region is nice
because then you can't be disappointed
right like right yeah but the analysts I
think are usually pretty good at being
honest honest about stuff I mean usually
honestly possible I like the Chinese
analyst but so you think that the
analysts are do you think they're
downplaying China because it sounds like
you were saying it they're downplaying
but yeah I think they're downplaying
China especially cuz like well you just
said Chinese I gonna get out of groups
or that NES but never anything but I
believe that they think so you know
their Chinese fans obviously like they
they're Opio fans but I hear like you
know I found those things like the dive
it's like a podcast like oh yeah like
and like I I hear it LP I like a lot of
love for OPI I feel like oh
love franais like I think Enys plays
like at a high level
yeah yeah but I think you can say at
least historically you can understand
where they're coming from because even
right yeah even when EDG or let you know
that all that horrible season 5
performance happened for China right
I mean n8 did even worse right and I
feel like this year you know everybody
says no this year is the year and all
that but like just looking at the
Chinese teams like Suzy doesn't look
like he used to look like like I have
yet to see like what's up with him but
like I feel like the players are and you
know the players that are dominating
China they're the Korean like no Scout
is great and I know he's not there but
he's he's great but I just think China's
a little great I think and he's gonna
perform next week yeah there's grouping
Group D which both have a Chinese and
North American team and then there's
Group C with G - do you think China out
places any of the Western teams own
group Hey right cuz cloud 9 is in Group
A yeah so cloud 9 or any G's yes
EDG will probably finish second on that
group okay but I think RNG is out I mean
I mean you know I don't know how I'm not
so comfortable to you right but I think
g2 is good I like besides you know what
it's funny it's because like G to do you
choose most shaky players to me or the
Korean players like their imports are
kind of shaky yeah it's tricky
yeah tricking expect kind of like steady
I guess but yeah so I don't know I feel
like g2 can compete compete RNG and then
you look at Group D so I make it out I
don't know like I heard you talking
about it on beyond the wrist mark W and
TSM like the broken make it out just a
matter the order like greatest League
talks to it yeah yeah but yeah and then
immortals I think they can make it out
um that's gonna be really fun group to
watch we'll see I mean I I believe
historical relevance I believe it's been
tough for any when you compare it to
China and I think China will do all
right I mean what I can definitely say
with confidence and think he's sober
comrade for calling in hope things get
better in Florida what I could
definitely say with confidence is na
will outperform you at worlds and I
don't do anyone's surprised by that
that's uh that's pretty obvious right
mark I mean it is a little unfortunate
that you know we don't have a team with
a higher placing European team in the
group like I would love to see a nine
ended up in Group C just just for like
the the fun of it I understand anything
you're like no I don't want to go to
group C but it would be a lot of fun
just because right now technically
immortal should be there the fanatics
the two versus three seed TSM vs.
misfits TSM should be better the one C
versus the to C right so indirect
head-to-head this might this might be a
little biased to make any look better
it's just gonna be a question of how far
g2 gets and yeah some fortunate we will
have c9 going up against them or
something very good well that was the
last call so this is the end of hotline
legal stick around for the next ten or
fifteen minutes
hanging out with a chat mark I know you
gotta go but is there anything that you
would like to say cuz our last show that
we'll be doing at least while I'm in
North America so I love doing the show
it's a lot of fun you get perspectives
that you sometimes can't get just
through text or anything so like the
caller tonight mmm la Latium South was
just great and I would love to keep
having conversation with fans like that
yeah you know what I think one of the
things I was thinking about recently was
one of the more recent episodes of
League Weekly that we did we got a lot
of heat from reddit for just like you
know all patting ourselves on the back
or whatever so it's kind of nice now
that they're I think a lot of shows have
that as well what's just fine you know
like analysts are going to talk to
analysts and that's really insightful
conversation but it is kind of fun to do
the show where the community can really
give us their feedback they're taking on
stuff so anyway thank you so much for
watching everyone
Livan if you missed any of this is up on
my youtube channel or it will be by
probably tomorrow should be should be up
there that's
youtube.com slash travis gaffer and of
course you can support us over at travis
cafe.com support I will be by mark
dinner tonight
so you can help me cover that bait a lot
he does and we're going to a Korean
barbecue place it's not all you can eat
so it's good and do the piggy bank yeah
exactly so anyway that's the show thanks
so much for watching tune in next time
for even more fun